What is GRC or Governance risk and compliance
GRC or Governance risk and compliance is a loosely defined industry.  Good governance, risk management and compliance (GRC) practices are essential to strengthen the resilience of businesses and trust in organizations.

What is Enterprise risk management
Enterprise risk management (ERM) is a methodology that looks at risk management strategically from the perspective of the entire firm or organization. It is a top-down strategy that aims to identify, assess, and prepare for potential losses, dangers, hazards, and other potentials for harm that may interfere with an organization's operations and objectives and/or lead to losses.

What is compliance in the context of financial industry
Compliance means establishing effective supervision and control of the firm's activities to ensure it complies with applicable laws and regulations.

What does internal control mean in the context of compliance?
Controls mean policies, procedures, and technical safeguards established by a business to help it to meet its compliance objectives.

What are the three type of internal controls?  
Preventative internal controls, Detective internal controls and Corrective internal controls

What are Preventative internal controls?
These are controls aimed at reducing risks by preventing adverse events from occurring.  Examples include segregation of duties, access controls, pre-employment screening.

What are Detective Internal Controls?
Detective internal controls detect an error problem after it has occurred.  Internal audits, reporting based controls are examples. 

What are Corrective Internal Controls?
Corrective internal controls are implemented after detective controls discover a problem. These controls could include disciplinary action, report filing, software patches or modifications, and new policies. They are usually put into place after a root cause investigation.

What does external controls mean in the context of compliance?
External controls are policies, procedures and technical safeguards established by an outside party that impacts the governance of a business

What is 3LOD or 3 lines of defense framework in GRC?
Codified by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in its 2011 Principles for the sound management of operational risk, the three lines of defence is a risk governance framework that splits responsibility for operational risk management across three functions. Individuals in the first line own and manage risk directly. The second line oversees the first line, setting policies, defining risk tolerances, and ensuring they are met. The third line, consisting of internal audit, provides independent assurance of the first two lines.

What is the first line or first line of defence in the 3LOD?
This is formed by managers and staff who are responsible for identifying and managing risk as part of their accountability for achieving objectives. Collectively, they should have the necessary knowledge, skills, information, and authority to operate the relevant policies and procedures of risk control. This requires an understanding of the company, its objectives, the environment in which it operates, and the risks it faces.


What is the second line or the second line of defence in the 3LOD?
This provides the policies, frameworks, tools, techniques and support to enable risk and compliance to be managed in the first line, conducts monitoring to judge how effectively they are doing it, and helps ensure consistency of definitions and measurement of risk.  The second line comprises risk management and compliance functions to help build and/or monitor the first line of defence controls and typically report to senior management. 

What is the third line of the third line of defense in the 3LOD?
The principal function of the third line is to provide risk assurance. Internal audit provides assurance on the effectiveness of governance, risk management and internal controls, including first and second line controls. Internal audit is independent of management with a direct reporting line to the Governing body/ Audit Committee.  Tasked by, and reporting to the board / audit committee, it provides an evaluation, through a risk-based approach, on the effectiveness of governance, risk management, and internal control to the organization’s governing body and senior management. 

How are controls implemented within riskAI?
Controls are implemented via workflows in riskAI.  They should ideally follow the 3LOD framework.


What are typical internal controls in accounting?
Five common internal accounting controls are 1) segregation of duties, 2) restricted access to financial systems, 3) Reconciliation of Accounts, Transactions, and Business Activities 4) Document standardizations and 5) approval authorization


What is the role of a chief compliance officer
The Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for the development, review, and execution of a company's business conduct and compliance program.  



